## Lesson 1: Back-end x Front-end

### Back-end

**Back-end Definition**: The backend development involves the server-side work of a web app or mobile app. It focuses
on logic, in the interactions with the database(s), and in the behind the scenes data processing.

Its mission is to deal with data. To receive a data, verify if that data meets the business rules established on the
software definition,. If everything is ok, save it on a given database, or any other type of processing. If the data
is invalid, it returns an exception like a message saying that the data won't be processed because it is invalid in
any aspect.

It is focused on getting all these behaviors of, for example, sending emails, creating sheets, treat exceptions, verify
if the data is correct, execute the business rules, and so on.

The back-end also focuses on the security, it should only return data as long as who asked for this data has access to
it. So we need to abstract everything to make the front-end life easier.

### Front-end

**Front-end definition**: The front-end or mobile deals with the user-oriented app aspects. This includes the project and
the implementation of interfaces user-oriented to enhance the user experience and ensure clear and intuitive interactions.

### Main Responsibilities of the Back-end

1. Data Management

Deal with the storage, recovery, and data manipulation, ensuring safe and efficient transactions

2. Server-side logic

Implements the business rules and necessary algorithms to process user requests and provide the desired results

3. APIs Development

Creates and maintains APIs that enable the communication between different components of an app or with external systems.

4. Database Administration
  
Manage and optimize databases, ensuring the integrity, availability, and data performance.   

### Backend x Frontend

Backend:
. Focuses on the server-side logic and in data processing
. Deals with the db administration and APIs development

Frontend
. Deals with interfaces and user-oriented interactions
. Projects user interfaces and write front-end & mobile code.