

# Lesson 1 - What is #NET

## What is the difference between C# and .NET?

C# is the programming language, .NET is a platform composed of multiple libraries.

Imagine we are going to create an app and everything we need to create to use in our app, we have to write it from scratch
from C#. We can utilize libraries out-of-the-box, using their behavior or even extending their behavior/functionalities
to customize on our own libraries. 

This is what .NET provides for us. It is composed by multiple libraries, and by the time we create our project, we simply
have to choose the type of project we want. If we want a project to execute as it was an app, for android, ios, or a
desktop app, project to create our APIs, and so on. Depending on the type of project we want to create, we can utilize
after it.

These libraries are written in C#. However, inside .NET we can utilize two other languages that it supports: VB, F#.

### Main Functionalities

Async Code, Lambda Functions, Garbage Collectors, Link (DB).

### Versions

Every month of november, a new .NET version is released. But we need to be cautious, mainly if we are in a corporative
environment.

On odd years, they release a LTS (Long Term Support) version , and microsoft will only supports this version foe three
years.
On even years, they release a STS (Standard Term Support) version, and microsoft will only support this version for
18 months.

## .NET history

In 2002, Microsoft released a set of libraries, and named this platform as '.NET Framework'. However, that library only
executes on windows environments. In 2014, it released the platform '.NET Core', that was open source and multi
platform.

.NET Core was named like this until version 3.1. But starting from version 3.1, Microsoft decided to remove the word
Core and launched the .NET 5.

# Lesson 2 - Compilation and Execution

Let's use our "Hello, world" project as example. What happens when we execute that project:

1st of all, the build of our project runs, and then, it will execute that builded project.

## Build

Essentially, the build checks if there is no syntax error, if all the functions being called exist, if they are being
called in the correct form, if no semi colon was forgotten, etc. In a good scenario, where everything is correct, .NET
will get our code written in C#, and transform it into a file with the '.dll' extension.

The .dll file will obtain our source code, and transform it into another language (which is called an intermediate language),
that 'il' is nothing more than a light, compact, and independent from the platform language. By platform or architecture
we are talking about OS,  the available memory, cpu type, and so on. This means that, if we are executing it in linux,
get the file after the build, which will be "ProjectName.dll", and send it to someone using windows, if that person
execute the same dll in different OS's, it will work. It is still our code, but it hasn't been transformed into a native
code. 

## Execution

In the execution, we enter in another concept called CLR (Common Language Runtime). The CLR gets the code, that is in
an intermediate language, and convert it to native code. Native codes take into consideration which is the OS being dealt
with, the CPU being used,  etc. 

When it converts to that native code, it finally executes and show us the result. Understand that CLR as if it was a virtual
machine. It essentially gets the code in il, converts it in that virtual machine to native code, and then, execute it.

Each OS has its own CLR. 

## Hello World Example

### Bin Folder

Inside this folder, there are some files, we will find our .dll file generated by the build, and if we run the dotnet
command on the cmd, on this dll file, we will be able to execute it like it would on visual studio. This already gets
the dll via `clr`, converts into native code, and then shows the results.

When we build console projects, it will also create a `.exe` file. However, if we double click that file. It will open
the window, and quickly close it. So if we want to keep it open, we have to execute it via cmd.

### Publish command

The publish command, when we publish it in the cloud, for example, it will create only one folder, with all the dlls, and
necessary file. It creates a different dll for each project.

We may have multiple bin folders inside multiple nested projects. And this publish will get all of these dlls, put inside
one folder, and publish it in a given server.



## Two new acronyms

In .NET we may encounter two acronyms. We already saw il, CLR, and there are two others

1. JIT (Just in time)

It is a compiler that will transform, only in execution time, our dll to a native code.

or

2. AOT (Ahead of time)
   
An anticipation, it will compile our code to the native language, and the .exe is a product of this. 

## Lesson 3 - .NET Cli (Command Line Interface)

Comparison between visual studio and the CLI 

### new

On the terminal, if we type 'dotnet new console -n hello-world'. We create a new console project. And it will create a
basic project as we would on the visual studio.

To execute that project, we simply enter the folder and type `dotnet run`

### build

When we go into th visual studio, right click the project -> build. We can also build the full solution.

This build will nothing more than verifying if the project or the any projects inside the solution have syntax or dependencies
errors. And if everything is alright, compile and create files in the intermediate language.

### test

Will execute all the unity tests in our app.

### publish

Will publish our built project to an API or Cloud environment

####   And multiple other CLI commands that we can verify on the documentation

## Lesson 4  What is an API?

# APIs are equal to any other language as we have already seen. The comments are well known, but just for documenting purposes

An API (Application Programming Interface), is a set of contracts and tools for software development. It allows different
systems to communicate and exchange data.

Contracts are the necessary information to execute a given service. For example, if we want to register a user account,
the API will define the following: "If you would like to register a user, so it can access an account in an app, you
will have to give me the name, email, password" and other type of information depending on the API.

It performs a fundamental role in modern WEB development, allowing applications to interact and share data with each
other.

### Use Benefits

**Modularity**: APIs promote modular development, allowing different parts of an app to be developed and maintained
independently.

**Scalability**: On allowing the communication between different system, APIs facilitate the horizontal dimensioning and
the workflow load distribution.

**Flexibility**: APIs offer flexibility to interact with multiple technologies, services and platforms, independent of
the utilized programming language.

### Creation of an API using .NET

1. Defining a structure

Identify the functionalities and the data models that our API will expose. Project a clean and intuitive API structure.

2. Implementing the endpoints

Write code to deal with each endpoint.

3. Add logic and business rules

Implement the main functionality of the API, such as data recovery, processing and all the necessary business rules

## Lesson 5 - API Answer

The way an api is called, with endpoints, request headers, body, etc. Is the same as the other languages.

Headers examples are

. What language i want the response to be
. The answer file type
. Access keys

### Anatomy of a response

**Status Code**:  The response include a status that indicate if the request was successful, errored, etc.
**Headers**: Just as the request, the response may also include additional headers that provides us information about the
content, cache, auth, etc.
**Response body**: The body contains the data returned by the API, it can be a JSON document, XML, HTML, or any other
adequate format.


## Lesson 6 - Status Code

Also the same as other languages

## Lesson 7 - What is JSON?

**Definition**: Format to store and transport data
**Syntax**: JSON uses a simple and readable syntax, that consist of keys and values
**Main Resources**: Language independent, easy to understand and offers support to a large data type variety.

Example

```ts
  {
    "nome": "Papai Noel",
    "idade": 2000,
    "cidade": 'Polo norte',
    "Veiculos": [
      'Treno'
    ]
  }
```

### Benefits

1. Easy to read and write
   
   JSON uses a simple and intuitive syntax that is easily understood by humans

2. Compatibility

  JSON can be used with any programming language and is broadly compatible with a variety of platforms

3. Efficient data transfer

  JSON has a compact size and can be passed through the network

4. Interoperability

  JSON allows the data exchange between different apps and systems.

## Lesson 7: API REST

### What is the REST architecture model based on?

1. The communication uses the HTTP protocol, with methods, such as: GET, POST, PUT, DELETE. Any resource used by this API
is associated with a URL  

2. It is stateless, meaning that any client request contains all the necessary information to understand it and to process
it, without depending on the last state. 

  . A stateless API, has a short-term memory. Assume that we have made a request to an API, the API will receive this request,
  process it, and return the result. After this was made, it will forget this result. 

  Meaning that all stateless requests can't be dependent on previous requests.

3. It should have a clear definition of what is part of the client and what is part of the server

  . This principle is based on the fact that our client (web, app, or api) doesn't have to know or worry about how it
  should send the information, simply because the API store the data in whichever place we want. The client does'nt need
  to know it. Everything should be abstract, it should say that it want to save the information or recover it.

  . Once we start making sure that the API should only deal with its request, and use this concept of layers, where one does
  not need to know about the other it can start to become more scalable. To increase the size of these services of both
  sides, becomes more interesting.

### What is RESTful?

It refers to a web service that follows all the REST principles, such as the principles we have seen, creating a uniform
interface, and more.

## Lesson 8: CRUD

Similar to any other language.








